so Terry huge day I mean Sunshine Coast
I waited a long time for this I reckon
it's been a huge day and a really proud
moment in timing as well I think we've
had just enormous year starting out the
year with tremendous floods battling all
the tourism issues that were battling
this is just such a positive step
forward and I think it's fantastic to
have a one of a kind for Queensland the
only mixed African exhibit in Queensland
all the animals are in together and we
are so proud not only to be fulfilling
Steve's dream but from a support of
tourism point of view that we are
keeping our gate prices exactly the same
so a bigger experience for the same
dollar value and we're really proud of
that
now how hard is it painted in to pull
this off given given the economic
climate well it's it's been a business
strategy and the idea is business is
like breathing you inhale and you exhale
and you have to do both so the the last
three years have seen some consolidation
in Australia Zoo but all the main
features have continued our conservation
properties are thriving our wildlife
hospital continues to grow and opening
Africa has to be the pinnacle of pride
and success and to fulfill Steve's dream
is just so important how important was
Africa to state I mean how much did he
talk about it what did he sign that well
I think it's so exciting because Steve
would come out here and it was just an
open field just orchards in this section
and he would stand out here with Wes and
myself and was our general manager Frank
and he'd say here's my dream and it was
kind of up to all of us to figure out
how to fund the dream
and after losing Steve up to Wes for for
formulating the the plan according to
see for how to build it and then a team
of people horticulturist construction
workers artists we've got the best
people on the planet we've got animal
Wranglers who are out there making sure
everybody gets along and and everything
is gone just so smoothly and I'm really
proud of the team the pretty amazing mix
of animals to have together I mean what
sort of difficulties is that gonna
create Oh May every day it's like it's
like having a whole bunch of kids all in
one area and making them play nice but
what's interesting is you might not
guess probably the toughest out of the
giraffe the zebra and the Rhino would be
the zebra so you stop and think if
you're a bloke out there the size of the
pony out on a Savannah with lions you
want to be tough so the zebra are
definitely the toughest guys out there
we've got one stallion in two geldings
and they are gorgeous
bhindi how excited a you about Africa
Robert what do you think about Africa
and you've been to South Africa that's
gonna be convenient for Queenslanders
it's pretty pretty amazing to have a
place like this in Queensland now I mean
it's how difficult was it to get the
animals here and all that sort of stuff
it's been remarkable and I think that
that strategy was real forward-thinking
so four years ago it was the beginning
of getting the animals in and early on
we had special experiences with the
animals for visitors we also have
programs in the home countries of these
animals so we've got programs of black
rhino in Kenya and cheetah in South
Africa in protecting some of these
special species at home so originally
people who come to Australia Zoo pay for
a private experience with the African
animals and that money would go to help
our programs in Africa and now of course
everyone can come see Africa so over the
last four years it's been a build up of
animals we've seen baby Savannah the
white rhino born in April and it's been
an exciting progress right now you're
the first to know that forest and Kenya
the giraffes are starting to date we
understand it was dinner and the movies
the other night perhaps we'll hear the
pitter-patter of two meter long
can you remember how a giraffe walks so
it looks weird to watch the run it looks
like they're running in slow motion yeah
very very cool
and then show what they have to do to
have a drink well probably turn and face
this way so everyone doesn't have to see
the giraffe from the back imagine having
a five-month-old that weighs 300 kilos
running around your place yeah that's
what we have to trying to lose those few
extra kilos you recommend you avoid
rhinos
let's remember that